NAT Gateway must be in a public subnet.
Elastic IP is required for a NAT Gateway.
Route Table Association connects a subnet to a route table.
Security Groups are stateful; Network ACLs are stateless.
Public subnet = route to Internet Gateway to access internet
Private subnet = route to NAT Gateway to access internet


Why is NAT Gateway required?

Answer:

Because instances in private subnets do not have public IPs. They require a NAT Gateway located in a public subnet to access the Internet for outbound traffic 
(package updates, downloading software, etc.), while still remaining inaccessible from the Internet.


Suppose you change:

count = 2

to

count = 3

Terraform compares the desired configuration in the .tf files with the current state stored in the state file. 
Since two subnets already exist and only count has increased from 2 to 3, Terraform determines that only one additional subnet needs to be created. 
It does not recreate the existing subnets because their configuration hasn't changed.


Ok, so vpc_id created in child module and then root module uses this to pass in to subnet child module.

"Terraform child modules don't communicate directly. One module exposes values through outputs, the root module reads those outputs using 
module.<module_name>.<output_name>, and then passes them as input variables to another child module."

A rule to remember

In a module block:

child_variable_name = root_value

The left side is the variable defined in the child module.

The right side is the value you're passing from the root module.

Most module errors are simply variable-name mismatches.

When debugging modules, I mentally trace the variable through the entire flow:

terraform.tfvars
        ↓
Root variables.tf
        ↓
Root module block
        ↓
Child variables.tf
        ↓
Child main.tf

If the names and types are consistent at each step, Terraform is usually happy.

Notice how each module either:

receives values as inputs, or
creates resources and exposes outputs.

The root module is the one connecting everything together.

Now you're reasoning about module interfaces—what a module needs as input and what it should expose as output. That's the mindset used when building maintainable Terraform projects.

Notice the pattern:

Child variable name      =      Value from root

eip_allocation_id        =      module.eip.eip_id

The left side must match the variable name declared in the child module.

The right side is the value you want to pass.